Create review_process.md (#4527)
conan-io/conan-center-index: docs/review_process.md

# Review process

Behind the scenes of conan center index, there is a pretty complicated and heavily automated process to review and merge pull requests.

> As there is a lot of activities by many users and various bots (e.g. bumping versions or updating conventions), many PRs are opened every day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As there is a lot of activity from many users and various bots (e.g. bumping versions or updating conventions), many PRs are opened every day.
```

CCI tries to make process as smooth and simple as possible for the contributors, 
but it requires complicated logic under the hood, and sometimes the logic might not look that obvious for the newcomers, 

> so this documment is willing to describe the internal process in the details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so this document intends to describe the internal process in detail.
```

## [conan-center-bot](https://github.com/conan-center-bot)

In general, reviews are driven by the automated [bot](https://github.com/conan-center-bot). The bot is responsible for:

- adding or removing labels (such as [No Beta User](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22No+Beta+user%22) or [Docs](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3ADocs))
- writing comments (most of the time, it's a build status, either failure with logs or success)
- merging pull requests
- closing issues (side effect of merging pull requests)
- starting CI builds

> - assigning CI status (running/failed/successed)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- assigning CI status (running/failed/successful)
```

## green build

The first important prerequisite is ensuring your PR is green (build is successful).
It requires a bit of patience, because there are many PRs are running, and we're building a lot of configurations for a numerous versions of libraries.
Keep attention to the error messages from the bot, and address all the build failures.

> Bot tries to provide all the helpful information needed to understand and reproduce an issue, such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bot tries to provide all the helpful information needed to understand and reproduce an issue, such as:
```

- the profile that failed (in other words, the configuration - architecture, operation system, compiler, etc.)
- failed command line (it might have failed on early stages - e.g. recipe syntax errors, or later stages, like build or test)
- logs (contains actual output of the build process - not that some important logs like `configure.log` or `CMakeError.log` are not captured, it's just stdout/stderr)

If you struggle to fix build errors yourself, you always may ask for the help, either by tagging individual users, or by adding label [Help Wanted](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3A%22help+wanted%22).

### Unexpected error

> Sometimes, build fails with `Unexecpted error` message. This indicates an infrastracture problem, and usually it's unrelated to the changes within PR itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, build fails with `Unexpected error` message. This indicates an infrastructure problem, and usually it's unrelated to the changes within PR itself.
```

> Keep in mind CCI is still an early access (consider it beta), and there are still some instabilities. Especially, as we're using lots of various services,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep in mind CCI is still in early access (consider it beta), and there are still some instabilities. Especially, as we're using lots of external services,
```

which might be inaccessible (GitHub API, docker hub, etc.) and may result in intermittent failures.

> So, what to do once `Unexecpted error` was encountered? You may consider rerunning the build, there are several ways to do it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, what to do once `Unexpected error` was encountered? You may consider re-running the build, and there are several ways to do it:
```

- do an empty commit: `git commit --allow-empty`
- update the last commit: `git commit --amend --no-edit && git push -f`
- close pull request, wait 15 seconds, re-open pull request

> sometimes it's needed to be done several times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes it's necessary to restart the build several times.
```

> If an `Unexpected error` persists, you probably may assign an [Infrastructure](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3ADocs+label%3Ainfrastructure) label and tag [@jgsogo](https://github.com/jgsogo) and [@danimtb](https://github.com/danimtb) asking for the help with CI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an `Unexpected error` persists, you may assign an [Infrastructure](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3ADocs+label%3Ainfrastructure) label and tag [@jgsogo](https://github.com/jgsogo) and [@danimtb](https://github.com/danimtb) asking for the help with CI.
```

Alternatively, just [open a new issue](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/issues/new/choose).

## avoiding conflicts

It's recommended to rebase your changes on top of the master branch to avoid conflicts.

> Right now, neither GitHub itself nor conan-center-bot notify about merge conflict, so it's contributor responsibility to periodically check for the conflicts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Right now, neither GitHub itself nor conan-center-bot notify about merge conflicts, so it's the contributor's responsibility to periodically check for the conflicts.
```

> Obviously, PRs that have merge conflicts are never merged, and all the conflicts has to be resolved first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Obviously, PRs that have merge conflicts are never merged, and all the conflicts have to be resolved first.
```

## draft

> Draft pull requests are also never merged. The same applies for `WIP` keyword (stands for `Work in Progress`) in the title - GitHub considers them drafts as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Draft pull requests are also never merged. The same applies for PRs with the `WIP` keyword (stands for `Work in Progress`) in the title - GitHub considers them drafts as well.
```

> Once you're done with your changes, remember to change from draft and remove WIP keyword from the title.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you're done with your changes, remember to convert from "Draft" to "Normal" pull request and remove WIP keyword from the title.
```

## getting PR reviewed

> Each PR should be reviewed by several reviewers before it could be merged. It cannot be just reviews from random people, we have two categories of the reviewers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each PR must be reviewed by several reviewers before it will be merged. It cannot be just reviews from random people, we have two categories of reviewers:
```

### official reviewers

The list includes only official conan developers (JFrog employees):

- [@memsharded](https://github.com/memsharded)
- [@lasote](https://github.com/lasote)
- [@danimtb](https://github.com/danimtb)
- [@jgsogo](https://github.com/jgsogo)
- [@czoido](https://github.com/czoido)
- [@solvingj](https://github.com/solvingj)
- [@sse4](https://github.com/sse4)
- [@uilianries](https://github.com/uilianries)

### community reviewers

The list includes conan center index contributors who are very active and proven to be trusted - they frequently submitted pull requests and provide their own useful reviews:

- [@madebr](https://github.com/madebr)
- [@SpaceIm](https://github.com/SpaceIm)
- [@ericLemanissier](https://github.com/ericLemanissier)
- [@prince-chrismc](https://github.com/prince-chrismc)
- [@Croydon](https://github.com/Croydon)
- [@intelligide](https://github.com/intelligide)
- [@theirix](https://github.com/theirix)
- [@gocarlos](https://github.com/gocarlos)

> The list is not constant and rolled periodically, as people's involvement change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list is not constant and will change periodically based on contribution.
```

> That also means you can be included to that list as well - submit PRs and provide reviews in order to be included to the list above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That also means you can be included in this list as well - submit PRs and provide reviews, and in time you may be added as a trusted contributor.
```

### Rule of 3 reviews

At least 3 reviews are required for an approval, and at least one of them has to be from the official reviewers.
So, it might be 1 official + 2 community, or 3 official, but it couldn't be just 3 community reviews.

### Reviews from others

> While reviews from contributors who don't belong neither to official reviewers nor to community reviewers are not counted by the bot, they are still valuable and very helpful, so do not hesistate to provide your reviews.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All reviews are still valuable and very helpful. Even if you're not listed as an official or community reviewer counted by the bot, your reviews are still welcome, so please do not hesitate to provide them.
```

### Addressing review comments

Please ensure to address the review comments and respond to them in order to get your PR approved and finally merged.
It doesn't always mean accepting all the suggestions, but at least providing a response, so people can understand your position.

## Automatic Merges

> The bot runs Automatic Merges every 30 minutes. By now, it may only merge a single PR at one shot, so there is a theoretical limit of 48 PRs merged per day (in practice, it's even less for reasons listed below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bot runs Automatic Merges every 30 minutes. Currently, it can only merge a single PR in this timeframe, so there is a theoretical limit of 48 PRs merged per day (in practice, it's even less for reasons listed below).
```

PR is selected for the merge only if:

- author is a [beta user](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/issues)

> - ahthor has signed CLA

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- author has signed CLA
```

- PR is not a Draft or WIP
- PR has a green status (successful build)
- PR doesn't have merge conflicts with `master` branch
- PR has 3 approved reviews (rule described above)
- master build is not running already (see below)

If these conditions are fullfilled, the PR is merged (associated issues are automatically closed), and then build of master is launched

### Merge

If there is an actual merge to happen (for instance, the recipe changed in PR was already updated in master by the time PR merged), 

> it should introduce a new recipe revision, therefore, the build should be run one more time, so the master build is launched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it will introduce a new recipe revision. Therefore, the build should be run one more time, so the master build is launched.
```

In reality this could happen frequently enough if there are multiple PRs aiming to update the same recipe (even if they touch different files in the same recipe).

> Such builds, sometimes could takes hours for big packages (like boost), blocking other merges for a while.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such builds can takes hours for big packages (like boost), blocking other merges for a while.
```

### Upload

Even if there is no new revision introduced, CI still needs to publish artifacts from the internal repository to the conan center index, and it also currently may take hours for big enough packages.

> This also blocks further merges until upload is finished. It also explain why new packages are not immediately available for consumpting after the merge, and there is a grace period to wait for they availability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This also blocks further merges until upload is finished. It also explains why new packages are not immediately available for consumption after the merge, and there is a grace period to wait for they availability.
```

### Updating web front end

> Conan center [web front-end](https://conan.io/center/) doesn't directly pull the information from the conan center index repository - instead, it's updated by the conan center CI job as its own step, the metadata from the conan repository is converted to the format front end understands (it doesn't communicate with conan API or run conan commands).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conan center [web front-end](https://conan.io/center/) doesn't directly pull the information from the conan center index 
repository.  Instead, it's updated by the conan center CI job as its own step. The metadata from the conan repository is 
converted to the format the web-front-end understands and then sent to it as a scheduled update. As a result, there may occasionally be delays in updating the web-front-end.
```

# Review process

Behind the scenes of conan center index, there is a pretty complicated and heavily automated process to review and merge pull requests.
As there is a lot of activity from many users and various bots (e.g. bumping versions or updating conventions), many PRs are opened every day.
CCI tries to make process as smooth and simple as possible for the contributors, 
but it requires complicated logic under the hood, and sometimes the logic might not look that obvious for the newcomers, 
so this document intends to describe the internal process in detail.

> 

Reviewer 2: Just to be consistent with the other docs

```suggestion

<!-- toc -->
## Contents

  * [conan-center-bot](#conan-center-bot)
  * [Green Build](#green-build)
  * [Unexpected error](#unexpected-error)
  * [Avoiding Conflicts](#avoiding-conflicts)
  * [Draft](#draft)
  * [Getting PR Reviewed](#getting-pr-reviewed)
  * [Automatic Merges](#automatic-merges)<!-- endToc -->
  
```

The bot tries to provide all the helpful information needed to understand and reproduce an issue, such as:

- the profile that failed (in other words, the configuration - architecture, operation system, compiler, etc.)
- failed command line (it might have failed on early stages - e.g. recipe syntax errors, or later stages, like build or test)
- logs (contains actual output of the build process - not that some important logs like `configure.log` or `CMakeError.log` are not captured, it's just stdout/stderr)

If you struggle to fix build errors yourself, you always may ask for the help, either by tagging individual users.

### Unexpected error

Sometimes, build fails with `Unexpected error` message. This indicates an infrastructure problem, and usually it's unrelated to the changes within PR itself.
Keep in mind CCI is still in early access (consider it beta), and there are still some instabilities. Especially, as we're using lots of external services,
which might be inaccessible (GitHub API, docker hub, etc.) and may result in intermittent failures.
So, what to do once `Unexpected error` was encountered? You may consider re-running the build, and there are several ways to do it:

> - do an empty commit: `git commit --allow-empty`

Reviewer 3: Empty commits are not good for CCI, according @jgsogo

- update the last commit: `git commit --amend --no-edit && git push -f`
- close pull request, wait 15 seconds, re-open pull request

Sometimes it's necessary to restart the build several times.

> If an `Unexpected error` persists, you may assign an [Infrastructure](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3ADocs+label%3Ainfrastructure) label and tag [@jgsogo](https://github.com/jgsogo) and [@danimtb](https://github.com/danimtb) asking for the help with CI.

Reviewer 2: We can not label issue again

Author: Yes, seems like it's only us who can do that, I'll remove that

Alternatively, just [open a new issue](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/issues/new/choose).

## avoiding conflicts

It's recommended to rebase your changes on top of the master branch to avoid conflicts.

> Right now, neither GitHub itself nor conan-center-bot notify about merge conflicts, so it's the contributor's responsibility to periodically check for the conflicts.

Reviewer 2: GitHub does flag PR with conflicts in master... I would have sworn the bot was blocked by this as well.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16867443/107722336-b4e4cb80-6cac-11eb-8be3-e909d45e6864.png)

Author: it blocks the merge, that's right. the problem you never get the notifications about conflicts, so the only way, for now, is to check periodically. in the future, I guess, the bot could assign a label.

So, it might be 1 official + 2 community, or 3 official, but it couldn't be just 3 community reviews.

### Reviews from others

All reviews are still valuable and very helpful. Even if you're not listed as an official or community reviewer counted by the bot, your reviews are still welcome, so please do not hesitate to provide them.

### Addressing review comments

Please ensure to address the review comments and respond to them in order to get your PR approved and finally merged.
It doesn't always mean accepting all the suggestions, but at least providing a response, so people can understand your position.

## Automatic Merges

The bot runs Automatic Merges every 30 minutes. Currently, it can only merge a single PR in this timeframe, so there is a theoretical limit of 48 PRs merged per day (in practice, it's even less for reasons listed below).
PR is selected for the merge only if:

- Author is an added [beta user](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/issues/4).
- Author has signed CLA.
- PR is not a Draft or WIP.
- PR has a green status (successful build).
- PR doesn't have merge conflicts with `master` branch.

> - PR has 3 approved reviews (as described above).

Reviewer 2: Since this PR is blocked.... might be worth adding that too!

```suggestion
- PR has 3 approved reviews (as described above).
- PR does not have any [official reviewers](#official-reviewers) requesting changes
```

The bot tries to provide all the helpful information needed to understand and reproduce an issue, such as:

- The profile that failed (in other words, the configuration: architecture, operation system, compiler, etc.)
- Failed command line (it might have failed on early stages, like recipe syntax errors, hook errors or later stages, like build or test).
- Logs containing the actual output of the build process (note that some logs like *configure.log* or *CMakeError.log* are not captured, only stdout/stderr).

If you struggle to fix build errors yourself, you may want to ask for help from other users by mentioning (`@<user>`) individual users in the pull request comments.

### Unexpected error

Sometimes, build fails with `Unexpected error` message. This indicates an infrastructure problem, and usually it's unrelated to the changes within PR itself.
Keep in mind conan-center-index is still in "early access program", and there are still some instabilities. Especially, as we're using lots of external services,
which might be inaccessible (GitHub API, docker hub, etc.) and may result in intermittent failures.

> So, what to do once `Unexpected error` was encountered? You may consider re-running the build by closing your pull request, waiting 15 seconds, and the re-opening it again.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
So, what to do once `Unexpected error` was encountered? You may consider re-running the build by closing your pull request, waiting 15 seconds, and then re-opening it again.
```

Sometimes it's necessary to restart the build several times.
If an `Unexpected error` persists, tag [@jgsogo](https://github.com/jgsogo) and [@danimtb](https://github.com/danimtb) asking for the help with CI.
Alternatively, just [open a new issue](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/issues/new/choose).

## Avoiding conflicts

It's recommended to rebase your changes on top of the master branch to avoid conflicts.
Right now, neither GitHub itself nor conan-center-bot notify about merge conflicts, so it's the contributor's responsibility to periodically check for the conflicts.
Obviously, PRs that have merge conflicts are never merged, and all the conflicts have to be resolved first.

## Draft

Draft pull requests are also never merged. The same applies for PRs with the `WIP` keyword (stands for `Work in Progress`) in the title - GitHub considers them drafts as well.

> Once you're done with your changes, remember to convert from "Draft" to "Normal" pull request and remove WIP keyword from the title.

Reviewer 4: Probably (not 100% sure) this is not accurate. When you open a PR with the `WIP` keyword it starts as a draft, but I think you can convert it into a regular PR without removing the WIP word. On our side, the bot doesn't take into account if the word `WIP` appears in the title or not.

> Once you're done with your changes, remember to convert from "Draft" to "Normal" pull request and remove WIP keyword from the title.

Author: ```suggestion
Once you're done with your changes, remember to convert from "Draft" to "Normal" pull request .
```

- [@danimtb](https://github.com/danimtb)
- [@jgsogo](https://github.com/jgsogo)
- [@czoido](https://github.com/czoido)
- [@solvingj](https://github.com/solvingj)
- [@sse4](https://github.com/sse4)
- [@uilianries](https://github.com/uilianries)

### Community reviewers

The list includes conan-center-index contributors who are very active and proven to be trusted - they frequently submitted pull requests and provide their own useful reviews:

- [@madebr](https://github.com/madebr)
- [@SpaceIm](https://github.com/SpaceIm)
- [@ericLemanissier](https://github.com/ericLemanissier)
- [@prince-chrismc](https://github.com/prince-chrismc)
- [@Croydon](https://github.com/Croydon)
- [@intelligide](https://github.com/intelligide)
- [@theirix](https://github.com/theirix)
- [@gocarlos](https://github.com/gocarlos)

The list is not constant and will change periodically based on contribution.
That also means you can be included in this list as well - submit PRs and provide reviews, and in time you may be added as a trusted contributor.

### Rule of 3 reviews

At least 3 reviews are required for an approval, and at least one of them has to be from the official reviewers.

> So, it might be 1 official + 2 community, or 3 official, but it couldn't be just 3 community reviews.

Reviewer 4: Maybe a word about reviews asking for changes. Approvals count only if they are associated with the latest commit in the PR, while "Change requested" ones (from the Conan team) will persist even if there are new commits. Don't hesitate to dismiss old reviews if the issues have already been addressed.

> So, it might be 1 official + 2 community, or 3 official, but it couldn't be just 3 community reviews.

Author: ```suggestion
So, it might be 1 official + 2 community, or 3 official, but it couldn't be just 3 community reviews.
Approvals are only counted if they are associated with the latest commit in the PR, while "Change requested" ones (from the Conan team) will persist even if there are new commits. Don't hesitate to dismiss old reviews if the issues have already been addressed.
```

PR is selected for the merge only if:

- Author is an added [beta user](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/issues/4).
- Author has signed CLA.
- PR is not a Draft or WIP.
- PR has a green status (successful build).
- PR doesn't have merge conflicts with `master` branch.
- PR has 3 approved reviews (as described above).
- PR does not have any [official reviewers](#official-reviewers) requesting changes
- Master build is not running already (see below)

If these conditions are fulfilled, the PR is merged (associated issues are automatically closed), and then the build of master is launched.

### Merge

After merging a pull request, if an actual merge happened (for instance, the recipe changed in PR was already updated in master by the time PR merged), 
it will introduce a new recipe revision. Therefore, the build should be run one more time, so the master build is launched.
In reality this could happen frequently enough if there are multiple PRs aiming to update the same recipe (even if they touch different files in the same recipe).

> Such builds can take hours for big packages (like boost), blocking other merges for a while.

Reviewer 4: This is a problem for us. I would like to read here (or when you talk about conflicts) that we really appreciate if changes in `master` to the same recipe are already merged into the proposed PR

Author: ```suggestion
Such builds can take hours for big packages (like boost), blocking other merges for a while.
So we really appreciate it if changes in master to the same recipe are already merged into the proposed PR.
```

### Upload

Even if there is no new revision introduced, CI still needs to publish artifacts from the internal repository to ConanCenter, and it may also take hours for big enough packages.

> This also blocks further merges until upload is finished. It also explains why new packages are not immediately available for consumption after the merge, and there is a grace period to wait for they availability.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This also blocks further merges until upload is finished. It also explains why new packages are not immediately available for consumption after the merge, and there is a grace period to wait for their availability.
```

# Review process

Behind the scenes of conan center index, there is a pretty complicated and heavily automated process to review and merge pull requests.
As there is a lot of activity from many users and various bots (e.g. bumping versions or updating conventions), many PRs are opened every day.
CCI tries to make process as smooth and simple as possible for the contributors, 
but it requires complicated logic under the hood, and sometimes the logic might not look that obvious for the newcomers, 
so this document intends to describe the internal process in detail.

<!-- toc -->
## Contents

  * [conan-center-bot](#conan-center-bot)
  * [Green Build](#green-build)
  * [Unexpected error](#unexpected-error)
  * [Avoiding Conflicts](#avoiding-conflicts)
  * [Draft](#draft)
  * [Getting PR Reviewed](#getting-pr-reviewed)
  * [Automatic Merges](#automatic-merges)<!-- endToc -->
  
## [conan-center-bot](https://github.com/conan-center-bot)

In general, reviews are driven by the automated [bot](https://github.com/conan-center-bot). The bot is responsible for:

> - adding or removing labels (such as [No Beta User](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22No+Beta+user%22) or [Docs](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3ADocs))
> - writing comments (most of the time, it's a build status, either failure with logs or success)
> - merging pull requests
> - closing issues (side effect of merging pull requests)
> - starting CI builds
> - assigning CI status (running/failed/successful)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Adding or removing labels (such as [No Beta User](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22No+Beta+user%22) or [Docs](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3ADocs)).
- Writing comments (most of the time, it's a build status, either failure with logs or success).
- Merging pull requests.
- Closing issues (after merging pull requests with GitHub keywords).
- Starting CI builds.
- Assigning CI status (running/failed/successful).
```

> ## green build

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Green build
```

The first important prerequisite is ensuring your PR is green (build is successful).
It requires a bit of patience, because there are many PRs are running, and we're building a lot of configurations for a numerous versions of libraries.
Keep attention to the error messages from the bot, and address all the build failures.
The bot tries to provide all the helpful information needed to understand and reproduce an issue, such as:

> - the profile that failed (in other words, the configuration - architecture, operation system, compiler, etc.)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- The profile that failed (in other words, the configuration: architecture, operation system, compiler, etc.)
```

> - failed command line (it might have failed on early stages - e.g. recipe syntax errors, or later stages, like build or test)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Failed command line (it might have failed on early stages, like recipe syntax errors, hook errors or later stages, like build or test).
```

> - logs (contains actual output of the build process - not that some important logs like `configure.log` or `CMakeError.log` are not captured, it's just stdout/stderr)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Logs containing the actual output of the build process (note that some logs like *configure.log* or *CMakeError.log* are not captured, only stdout/stderr).
```

> If you struggle to fix build errors yourself, you always may ask for the help, either by tagging individual users.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you struggle to fix build errors yourself, you may want to ask for help from other users by mentioning (`@<user>`) individual users in the pull request comments.
```

### Unexpected error

Sometimes, build fails with `Unexpected error` message. This indicates an infrastructure problem, and usually it's unrelated to the changes within PR itself.

> Keep in mind CCI is still in early access (consider it beta), and there are still some instabilities. Especially, as we're using lots of external services,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Keep in mind conan-center-index is still in "early access program", and there are still some instabilities. Especially, as we're using lots of external services,
```

which might be inaccessible (GitHub API, docker hub, etc.) and may result in intermittent failures.

> So, what to do once `Unexpected error` was encountered? You may consider re-running the build, and there are several ways to do it:
> 
> - update the last commit: `git commit --amend --no-edit && git push -f`
> - close pull request, wait 15 seconds, re-open pull request

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
So, what to do once `Unexpected error` was encountered? You may consider re-running the build by closing your pull request, waiting 15 seconds, and the re-opening it again.
```

Sometimes it's necessary to restart the build several times.
If an `Unexpected error` persists, tag [@jgsogo](https://github.com/jgsogo) and [@danimtb](https://github.com/danimtb) asking for the help with CI.
Alternatively, just [open a new issue](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/issues/new/choose).

> ## avoiding conflicts

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Avoiding conflicts
```

It's recommended to rebase your changes on top of the master branch to avoid conflicts.
Right now, neither GitHub itself nor conan-center-bot notify about merge conflicts, so it's the contributor's responsibility to periodically check for the conflicts.
Obviously, PRs that have merge conflicts are never merged, and all the conflicts have to be resolved first.

> ## draft

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Draft
```

Draft pull requests are also never merged. The same applies for PRs with the `WIP` keyword (stands for `Work in Progress`) in the title - GitHub considers them drafts as well.
Once you're done with your changes, remember to convert from "Draft" to "Normal" pull request and remove WIP keyword from the title.

> ## getting PR reviewed

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Getting your pull request reviewed
```

Each PR must be reviewed by several reviewers before it will be merged. It cannot be just reviews from random people, we have two categories of reviewers:

> ### official reviewers

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Official reviewers
```

> The list includes only official conan developers (JFrog employees):

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The list includes only official Conan developers:
```

- [@memsharded](https://github.com/memsharded)
- [@lasote](https://github.com/lasote)
- [@danimtb](https://github.com/danimtb)
- [@jgsogo](https://github.com/jgsogo)
- [@czoido](https://github.com/czoido)
- [@solvingj](https://github.com/solvingj)
- [@sse4](https://github.com/sse4)
- [@uilianries](https://github.com/uilianries)

> ### community reviewers

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Community reviewers
```

> The list includes conan center index contributors who are very active and proven to be trusted - they frequently submitted pull requests and provide their own useful reviews:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The list includes conan-center-index contributors who are very active and proven to be trusted - they frequently submitted pull requests and provide their own useful reviews:
```

That also means you can be included in this list as well - submit PRs and provide reviews, and in time you may be added as a trusted contributor.

### Rule of 3 reviews

At least 3 reviews are required for an approval, and at least one of them has to be from the official reviewers.
So, it might be 1 official + 2 community, or 3 official, but it couldn't be just 3 community reviews.

### Reviews from others

All reviews are still valuable and very helpful. Even if you're not listed as an official or community reviewer counted by the bot, your reviews are still welcome, so please do not hesitate to provide them.

### Addressing review comments

Please ensure to address the review comments and respond to them in order to get your PR approved and finally merged.
It doesn't always mean accepting all the suggestions, but at least providing a response, so people can understand your position.

## Automatic Merges

The bot runs Automatic Merges every 30 minutes. Currently, it can only merge a single PR in this timeframe, so there is a theoretical limit of 48 PRs merged per day (in practice, it's even less for reasons listed below).
PR is selected for the merge only if:

> - author is a [beta user](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/issues)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Author is a [beta user](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/issues).
```

> - author has signed CLA

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Author has signed CLA.
```

> - PR is not a Draft or WIP

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- PR is not a Draft or WIP.
```

> - PR has a green status (successful build)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- PR has a green status (successful build).
```

> - PR doesn't have merge conflicts with `master` branch

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- PR doesn't have merge conflicts with `master` branch.
```

> - PR has 3 approved reviews (rule described above)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- PR has 3 approved reviews (as described above).
```

> - master build is not running already (see below)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Master build is not running already (see below)
```

> If these conditions are fullfilled, the PR is merged (associated issues are automatically closed), and then build of master is launched

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If these conditions are fulfilled, the PR is merged (associated issues are automatically closed), and then the build of master is launched.
```

### Merge

> If there is an actual merge to happen (for instance, the recipe changed in PR was already updated in master by the time PR merged), 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
After merging a pull request, if an actual merge happened (for instance, the recipe changed in PR was already updated in master by the time PR merged), 
```

it will introduce a new recipe revision. Therefore, the build should be run one more time, so the master build is launched.
In reality this could happen frequently enough if there are multiple PRs aiming to update the same recipe (even if they touch different files in the same recipe).

> Such builds can takes hours for big packages (like boost), blocking other merges for a while.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Such builds can take hours for big packages (like boost), blocking other merges for a while.
```

### Upload

> Even if there is no new revision introduced, CI still needs to publish artifacts from the internal repository to the conan center index, and it also currently may take hours for big enough packages.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Even if there is no new revision introduced, CI still needs to publish artifacts from the internal repository to ConanCenter, and it may also take hours for big enough packages.
```

This also blocks further merges until upload is finished. It also explains why new packages are not immediately available for consumption after the merge, and there is a grace period to wait for they availability.

### Updating web front end

> Conan center [web front-end](https://conan.io/center/) doesn't directly pull the information from the conan center index 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
[ConanCenter] doesn't directly pull the information from conan-center-index 
```

repository.  Instead, it's updated by the conan center CI job as its own step. The metadata from the conan repository is 
converted to the format the web-front-end understands and then sent to it as a scheduled update. As a result, there may occasionally be delays in updating the web-front-end.

> That may explain the fact there are moments then information is front end doesn't match the actual state on the conan center repository.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
That may explain the fact there are moments when the information showed in the frontend doesn't match the actual state on the ConanCenter repository.
```

In general, reviews are driven by the automated [bot](https://github.com/conan-center-bot). The bot is responsible for:

- Adding or removing labels (such as [No Beta User](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22No+Beta+user%22) or [Docs](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3ADocs)).
- Writing comments (most of the time, it's a build status, either failure with logs or success).
- Merging pull requests.

> - Closing issues (after merging pull requests with GitHub keywords).

Reviewer 2: I was under the impression the GitHub does this automatically 😕

Author: yes, this is only side effect of merging PRs. still, it appears in the interface and e-mails like bot did that.

The bot runs Automatic Merges every 30 minutes. Currently, it can only merge a single PR in this timeframe, so there is a theoretical limit of 48 PRs merged per day (in practice, it's even less for reasons listed below).
PR is selected for the merge only if:

> - Author is a [beta user](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/issues).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Author is an added [beta user](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/issues/4).
```

- Master build is not running already (see below)

If these conditions are fulfilled, the PR is merged (associated issues are automatically closed), and then the build of master is launched.

### Merge

After merging a pull request, if an actual merge happened (for instance, the recipe changed in PR was already updated in master by the time PR merged), 
it will introduce a new recipe revision. Therefore, the build should be run one more time, so the master build is launched.
In reality this could happen frequently enough if there are multiple PRs aiming to update the same recipe (even if they touch different files in the same recipe).
Such builds can take hours for big packages (like boost), blocking other merges for a while.

### Upload

Even if there is no new revision introduced, CI still needs to publish artifacts from the internal repository to ConanCenter, and it may also take hours for big enough packages.
This also blocks further merges until upload is finished. It also explains why new packages are not immediately available for consumption after the merge, and there is a grace period to wait for they availability.

### Updating web front end

> [ConanCenter] doesn't directly pull the information from conan-center-index 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[ConanCenter](https://conan.io/center/) doesn't directly pull the information from conan-center-index 
```
